[Music]
so you're having a race between a plane
a car and a ship now whoever decides to
place their big bet on the ship would
have a bad day loser and this despite
the fact that ships have the most
powerful engines but why well we're
going to find out right now
ships come in all shapes and sizes from
motorized dinghies to yachts from
glorious looking white cruise ships to
grim and bulky container ships and
tankers but they all share one quality
their engine seems excessively powerful
yet they can't seem to output the speed
you would expect from this kind of power
the reality is the exact opposite of the
expectations a big liner can cross the
Atlantic Ocean in a week but a cargo
ship would have to spend more than two
weeks to do the same thing for a plane
to go from an airport in Western Europe
to New York for example it would take
only 8 hours some people might ask why
we even use ships
if planes are so much faster well here's
the catch you won't be able to carry
thousands of tons of weight by plane the
same goes for the number of passengers
some ships can carry more than 5,000
passengers in one go try to fit that
crowd in an airliner hey we can duct
tape them to the wings as a further
illustration let's take a look at the
supermassive or carriers like Vala max
she's a 1188 footlong monstrosity that
can carry 400,000 tons of metal or
deadweight that's more than the weight
of the entire Empire State Building yet
the ship will only go 17 miles per hour
or 15 knots as Mariners would call it
that's not even as fast as the running
speed of an Olympic track athlete so in
general ships are going slow just
because they don't need to go faster
their aim is set somewhere else
completely the sacrifice speed for
better carrying capacity cars and planes
maybe faster but even with half of a
cruise or cargo ships regular burden
cars wouldn't even move and the plane
wouldn't be able to leave the ground the
engines of big ships are huge
powerhouses taking up entire rooms and
swallowing tons of fuel each day like
it's a snack Emma Maersk the largest
cargo ship in the world capable of
carrying up to 12,000 20-foot metal
containers has an engine that weighs
2300 tons
when installed in the lower part of the
ship it takes a three-story construction
build around it for the crew to be able
to provide maintenance it's capable of
producing more than 100 thousand
horsepower output of engine power
transfer to an energy value that would
be more than enough to power up a small
city engine room yeah we got some bad
news we need to step it up down there
the captain wants to go waterskiing this
example may sound extreme but it shows
just how much more powerful big ships
are compared to cars or even planes in
contrast ships have much more trouble
moving at all when a plane flies it
needs to maintain enough speed to stay
up in the air and it needs to avoid
clouds when possible you've probably
experienced this nerve-racking moment
for yourself when a plane goes through
clouds it shakes quite a bit this is
because clouds are denser than air
causing friction with the plane when it
collides with the water vapor the clouds
are made of unfortunately ships have no
choice but to deal with the dense
environment that often almost fully
covers the ship's hull water produces
huge friction slowing down any movement
significantly even something as fast as
a bullet which slowed down and finally
stopped after just 100 feet through the
water this is why every ship needs more
power to move at all but brute force
isn't the only way ships deal with the
friction problem another big deal is the
necessity to minimize the area where the
ship comes in direct contact with the
water and here come to
problems it probably already occurred to
you that not all ships are huge liners
and some other ships can actually be
quite fast yes and those fast vessels
are smaller they go faster because they
weigh less and can glide right on the
surface of the water using the thrust of
their engines another trick smaller
boats use is splitting the hall into two
parts these boats and yachts are called
catamarans their buoyancy isn't as good
as that of a single hull vessel but they
greatly reduce the need to touch the
water with their smart design getting
back to the big stuff a large ship is
naturally submerged in the water with a
part of its hull up to the waterline but
this line shows only the predicted level
of water for the ship alone if that ship
is loaded with cargo
it'll be submerged deeper than that and
this means that it not only needs more
power to move its weight but the water
will make it even slower because they'll
be more friction in place but dealing
with water is even trickier than that
when a ship moves in the water it
displaces a volume of water equal to the
volume of its hull that's emerged this
displaced water becomes waves that go to
the sides of the ship
these waves further increase the area of
contact with the water and therefore
increases the friction it may not seem
like a big deal but in reality it
doesn't only slow the ship down by as
much as 40% but also noticeably
increases the consumption of fuel and
that's a big deal for transport
companies good thing there was an
ingenious solution to this problem all
modern-day ships have a so called
bulbous bow that thing that's submerged
in the water right under the nose of the
ship these are exclusively designed for
each type of ship depending on the size
carrying capacity speed and shape of the
ship the bulbous bow would also differ
in size and shape a bulbous bow is the
first thing the water meets when a ship
is moving
following his form the water will try to
make a certain type of waves but
it will encounter the main hall and also
try to produce waves of another time
when these two waves tried to form at
the same time they simply can't because
they cancel one another out completely
this is why modern ships don't produce
waves around them anymore
and their speed is no longer so affected
by them you can see it for yourself the
water around modern ships is relatively
flat if the shape of a bulbous bow is
even slightly deformed it won't be
effective at all and waves will appear
once again but hey if you want some
speed that doesn't mean you have to
forget about ships and boats entirely
even cruise ships these days can't be
fast HSC Francisco is one ship just like
that it combines the size of a cruise
ship capable of carrying 1,000
passengers in luxury and the design of a
catamaran each side of the hull is
fitted with wave piercers to further
improve the speed of the ship and if it
wasn't already enough it's powered by a
gas turbine engine that drives two water
jets these jets shoot powerful streams
of water and propel the ship forward
each jet stream shoots six thousand
three hundred gallons of water every
second and provides enough thrust to
speed the ship up to an unbelievable 58
knots or 67 miles per hour for such a
huge vessel this speed is almost unheard
of and that's not the fastest you can go
on the water of course WP 18 Special
Forces interceptor is a boat you'd
expect to see in a sci-fi movie but it's
real and it's literally cutting edge
design is specially developed to cut
through the waves at the extremely high
speed of 65 knots or 74 miles per hour
the main purpose of this vehicle is as
you can guess to intercept ships that
are trying to escape
like for example pirates or other
criminals and let's just say it's not
even worth trying to shake this speed
demon from your trail a rush for top
speeds was and always will be in
people's minds no matter what
this gave birth to another incredible
vessel the mystic power boats see 5,000
a 50 foot long
catamaran boat that's so fast it needed
a cockpit to protect the driver the max
speed achieved in this boat is a
mind-blowing 250 miles per hour now if
you want to go even faster well I have
bad news for you the sea won't let you
because it won't be calm enough speeds
higher than that would be too dangerous
for a boat that goes this fast the waves
would be as hard as concrete going into
one of them would launch the boat into
the air like a trampoline and the next
wave would simply crush it so it seems
like about 300 miles per hour is the
natural speed limit of the sea itself
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life